
So, touching on what I posted earlier, the following quote comes from a man from Myanmar named Ashin Wirathu:
"My strategy resembles Donald Trump's: The US may have a good standard of living but no security against Islam. Only Donald Trump can protect you. People say that I fan the flames of hate, but when there's a fire it's natural for people to get frightened. Only after the fire is extinguished will people turn to thank me."
I posted this because these aren't the words of some third world dictator or some far-right conservative Westerner... they are the words and feelings of a Buddhist Monk!
Ashin goes on to say, "Look! See this picture? [He holds out his phone, displaying a graphic photo of a corpse.] This is an example of what Muslims do. I lost some sleep over it last night. They tell me a Muslim family killed a Burmese man. Now, excuse me, I have to go post about this."
While in recent years I've pulled closer to the teachings of Buddhism over any other religion, this only serves to reinforce my need for a general disdain of organized religion--indeed as friends have pointed out to me, this should even include Buddhism. (For more reading on Buddhist violence, see this article from the Atlantic: https://www.theatlantic.com/…/can-anyone-stop-burma…/538992/, or check out the book "Myanmar's Enemy Within: Buddhist Violence and the Making of a Muslim 'Other'" (http://amzn.to/2xQrP7I)
I can't seem to escape feeling that if society as a whole stopped following the dogmas of past civilizations' religious texts, we might actually begin to find the kind of peace and harmony that all of our so-called "enlightened" religious leaders promise we'll find (so long as we pay tribute to their one arbitrary selected religion of course)...
In general the things I find appealing about Buddhism might better be described (perhaps regrettably) as "mindfulness"; as for all the robes and chanting blah blah... I honestly don't think that stuff adds to anything but the continuation of material attachment and the feeding of one's ego... and I do think these base instincts are at the root of much of the violence we find in our world.
Speaking of ego and materialism, feel free to read the entierty of this awesome article from Wired.com: https://www.wired.com/…/myanmar-internet-disrupted-society…/
I find human interest stories to be very fulfilling personally, and would argue the short story of Nay Phone Latt alone is worth the read. But, if you don't feel motivated to click the link and read the long article, here's his portion of the story in its entirety:
Nay Phone Latt
Age: 37
Pen name of Nay Myo Kyaw, one of Myanmar’s first political bloggers and a member of Yangon’s regional parliament
I come from a political family; I marched in the 1988 and 1997 uprisings. Those failed, of course, but I believed democracy would come. When I moved to Singapore in 2005, my friends introduced me to blogging. I realized how powerful it could be for spreading the pro-­democracy message. By the time I moved back home in 2007, the government had licensed a few internet cafés. I pooled money with friends to open one. Normally the authorities kept tight control—café owners had to hand over screenshots of what every user did. But I took my cafés underground. People could access Gmail, news websites, and other banned things. A lot of political activists were interested, so I organized the Myanmar Blogger Society.
One day in September 2007, I saw hundreds of monks marching and shouting in the rain. I felt like, “Finally, we’re going to get democracy.” But then the police began rounding up all the monks and arresting them. Everyone was afraid, but the other bloggers and I knew we had to get the story out. We used digital cameras to record injustices. It became one of the few ways to get information out of Myanmar. The internet made the revolution more possible because protesters could coordinate and inform the world. But eventually the authorities shut off the internet for the country. Then they came and arrested me.
I was sentenced to 20 years and six months in a remote prison. I swore to always find a way to speak out—I argued with the guards until I could write to whomever I wanted. If you lose your voice, you become invisible, and then the government can do whatever they want with you. Suddenly, after four years, I was released, and in 2015 I became a candidate for Aung San Suu Kyi’s political party. Mobile technology transformed the election, informing voters and helping the media make things more transparent. And if something went wrong at the voting stations, people could let me know, because everyone had a cell phone.
Now that we’re free, there are so many things to do for the people. Most rural people have never experienced anything like technology before, so they don’t know about digital security. A group of extremist monks is using social media to drive violence against Muslim minorities with hate speech, and many Muslim villages have been burned. So I’ve traveled around the country to provide training on how to use tech responsibly. While it can empower democracy, it can also have bad effects. Myanmar still needs to learn how to use it.
#ISeeNowThisShouldHaveBeenABlogPost
To be fair to Buddhism in Myanman, this man has been jailed for his views and support of violence against Muslim. I think that religion is a lot like Communism... it seems great on paper; but, as soon as human beings are involved and there's a power structure in place. . . well, you know......